Additional Install Notes
------------------------

This document represents a *very* basic, hand-holding walkthrough of how to
install Tao.  It's aimed primarily at OSX users who are unfamiliar with the
unix command line (it seems to me that linux and cygwin users are more
likely to know this stuff already), but for the most part it should apply to
all systems.

Things to Know:
---------------
-	Tao is distributed as source code - this means that you'll first have to
	compile it before you can use it, but don't worry, it's a relatively
	simple process if you follow the below instructions.
-	Tao uses a library called libaudiofile to write sound files.
	Unfortunately this is not included by default with OSX, so you'll have
	to install from the source code it yourself.  If you're running linux or
	cygwin, you'll be able to install it via your package manager, as it's a
	fairly common library.
-	Wherever you see something surrounded by single quotes ('), type it into
	the terminal minus the quotes.

Installing libaudiofile (OSX only):
-----------------------------------

1.)	Download the latest version of libaudiofile from here:
	http://www.68k.org/~michael/audiofile/
2.)	Unpack it somewhere on your home directory.
2.)	Open a terminal (/Applications/Utilities/Terminal on OSX).
3.)	Navigate to the new audiofile-... folder (to change directories from
	a terminal, use the 'cd' (Change Directory) command,
	e.g. 'cd libaudiofile' if the libary was in the libaudiofile folder).
4.)	Now we need to configure the build process so that it installs correctly
	for our system (because OSX is different to linux, ppc is different to
	intel etc.).  To do this we use the configure script included with
	libaudiofile.  By default, libaudiofile will be installed in
	/usr/local/lib (this is a standard unix directory, but you'll find that
	it's hidden from the Finder on OSX.  It is possible to install it
	elsewhere, but we won't be covering that here.
5.)	To configure the build process, type './configure'.  This will run the
	configure script.
6.)	You will see various lines of text as the configure script sets
	everything up.  When it's done (assuming it doesn't end in an error),
	type 'make'.  This compiles the library from it's source code.
7.)	Again, you'll see a fair bit of text output to the terminal as
	libaudiofile is compiled.  When it's done (again, assuming it doesn't
	end in an error message), you're ready to install it.
8.)	You'll now have to become the administrator(root) user to install
	libaudiofile.  To do this on OSX, type 'sudo su -' (on *nix, type 'su', on
	cygwin this step isn't necessary).  You will be asked to enter the
	administrator password, and then you will have administrator priviledges.
	Before you continue, you will have to change directory again if you're
	on OSX, so type (make sure you use the full path to libaudiofile this
	time, i.e. '/Users/<your_name>/<path_to_libaudiofile>')
	'cd <libaudiofile_path>'.
9.)	Type 'make install'.  This will copy the various files you've just
	compiled over to your destination directory.
10.)Type 'exit' now, to return to your regular user priviledges.

Installing Tao:
---------------

1.)	Unpack the Tao tarball somewhere (I'll assume you've already done this
	if you're reading this file).
2.)	In your terminal, change directory to the new tao directory.  If you're
	still in the libaudiofile directory, you will have to move up at least
	one directory - to do this, '..' represents the parent directory for the
	cd command (e.g. if tao is in the same parent directory as libaudiofile:
	'cd ../tao-1.0-beta-<date>').
3.)	The next steps are the same as for libaudiofile, so first run the
	configure script as shown in step 4 above.
4.)	Run make as above.
5.)	Run 'make install' as above, making sure to change to administrator
	priviledges if necessary.
6.)	On OSX, you'll have to update your PATH environment variable so that the
	system knows where to find the Tao executable.  In a text editor, open the
	.profile file in your home directory.  It'll be a bit complicated to do
	this with TextEdit, so you might find it easier to use the terminal-based
	editor, pico.  Run the command 'pico ~/.profile' in the Terminal, and
	you'll see a basic text editor (for the shortcuts along the bottom, '^'
	means the Ctrl key).
7.)	Add the following line to the end of the file:
	'export PATH=$PATH:/usr/local/bin'
	This means that when you try to run a program from the terminal, it will
	look in /usr/local/bin (as well as the other usual system paths) for the
	command you entered, and run it if it can find it.
8.)	Save the file and exit.

Running Tao:
------------
-	cd to the examples subdirectory in the original tao directory, and type
	'tao test' to build the test Tao script.  If everything has installed
	correctly, you should see some messages on the command line, then a
	window will open displaying 4 Tao instruments.
-	See the documentation in the doc subdirectory for how to use Tao.


- Niall Moody (9/5/06).
